Hello everyone so in this video tutorial will be learning about how to set up sublime text for computer
programming.
So of course, different text editor is out there, there are lots of text editor out there.
You can try any other text editor which suits you.
But personally, I prefer sublime text.
And of course I would recommend you sublime text for it.
You'll come to know more about sublime text in this video and you'll understand.
Why was I asking you for sublime text to start computer programming in Sublime text?
So first of all.
Let me quickly.
Yeah.
So let's open a new window in sublime text.
So this is a normal window for sublime text, but this tutorial is only about setting up sublime text,
right?
So this sublime text right now, I'm using Mac, so it can be for Mac, it can be for Windows, it can
be for Linux.
Device. right?
So Sublime text is available for all three. I've used in all three too! Right?
So it just describes how you can set up Sublime text for competitive  programming, right?
Installing GCC for C++ or Python.
Or that you should try yourself how to install the different compiler so that different languages
run on that.
Right now I'm just showing you how to set up Sublime text for competitive programming so that it becomes easy for
you to use it.
And also I'll be using it in the future video.
Right.
So yeah.
Okay. So guys
This is a normal blank screen from sublime text.
What I need to do is what I would want to do is that I don't want to open certain other videos, certain other
tabs or Windows so that I write code in some other window I run code in some other window I give input
in some other window and get output in some other window.
Right.
That would become too hectic for me.
for competitive programming  you need  to save time.
Right.
But what would be better if you just write code in the same window?
You put the input in the same window and you show the output in the same window, right?
So that's what we are trying to set up here and let's move ahead with this.
So firstly, what I what I have done is.
Yep.
Well, firstly, what we'll do is I will make a folder on the desktop called.
Competitive programming codes, CP codes, codes, whatever you wish.
And what I what we'll do is we'll have three files.
Right.
The first file is new
.cpp.
Let me open this.
So right now, let's say it's an empty file, cool.
And let me save this to the second file will be input.txt in which you will be writing
out your certain codes right and the third file.
sorry, input.txt is the file in which you will be copying down your input and the third file that I'll
have in the same folder.
Right.
So guys, just consider this as a warning.
that you have to include all these three files, the file in which you are coding.
That is new.cpp
The cpp file, C++ file for me.
The second is input.txt file in which I'll be copying down the input and output.txt file.
What is it?
The output.txt file.
So the code file will take input from input.txt, whatever.
I've given the input there and write the output to the output.txt file
It will write cout to the output.txt file, cool!
Now let us see how to make some certain columns.
Because right now also, if I try and code it out here, I like let's say I code something here.
Right.
Of course, I'll be, like, showing you how to make some sublime snippets that will ease us.
These are worth it.
So if I code something here, then also I need to switch windows, right?
To see input and output.
But I don't want to do that.
I want everything to be in the same window.
What I'll do is I'll find, quickly go to edit in the sublime text and.
Or file.
So I'll go to view.
Right.
So we have this view over here in the sublime text task
bar and in this view, what I'll do is I'll go to layout and choose columns.
I'll set three columns.
cool, so you can see that I've got three different columns in my sublime text view.
I'll put output in the third column you can put an
Roll it or move it to the second column.
Right.
And the first column contains a new.cpp file
so guys, right now, also, it is very easy for me to write some input in the input.txt file so that
I can get output in the output.txt file, right, it suits me.
But as we can see, the code length won't be going much.
Right?
Because if I write something really long, let's say some good recursive relation or some lengthy dp
or some condition check statements again and again.
So that would go in the next line.
But what I want to do is I because guys, we know that input are what like for our understanding, for
our examples, inputs are very small.
I want to write a very small input in input.txt and get an output for output.txt for all the like
for all the sample input outputs given in the problem statement.
So.
As we know, those are really small.
See, some of you can prefer this setup, right.
But let me show you some other way to do this.
What I'll do is I'll go to groups and what I'll say is
I'll say max columns is equal to two.
but earlier what we did was we went to layout.
We did three columns, right, layout columns three.
But now we are going on groups and we are saying max columns is equal to two
So now what happens is the maximum number of columns is equal to three, but the total columns are two
so maximum columns were equal to two but the total columns is equal to three.
Right, So for that.
We can easily see.
So we have adjusted input.txt here and we have a adjusted output.txt here, right?
Now, let us see how to take input from input.txt and write
Input to output.txt
And write output to output.txt, cool!
So this is a normal function.
And what I'll do here is I'll just write.
Some, freopen is a method of C++, it opens a file what I'll say is open a file called input.
.txt
Cool, why I'm saying input.txt because input.txt is right over here on the right hand
side and it's in the same folder as in New.cpp
file, see guys.
If input.txt is not in the same folder, is not in the same directory.
If I talk in terms of computer science, it is not in the same directory, then you have to mention the
whole file.
path in this particular.
string value, right, second value will be that you have to read, "r"  is for read and "w" is for write.
And you have to read the input from input.txt to standard input.
These are the three terms
Open the file input.txt read the input.
That is standard input.
See, in stdin second will be open.
The file called output.txt., So guys, It's a one time setup
You don't have to set it up again and again in every code just a one time setup and it will benefit you a
lot.
Right.
Write a file to stdout
That is.
Standard output.
Cool, so now let's check this.
Let's say I have taken "n",  let's input n and let's cout n, cool, and let's say the n value is 10
let me build this.
Right.
So what we saw was the what happened.
I initialize a variable called int n then it's it inputs that value from the input.txt what is the
first value is given here and it outputs it.
in the output.txt file.
So guys, Why am I showing you this tutorial?
Because I'll be using this setup for the whole.
course, right?  for the whole course
I'll be using this sublime text with the same settings, with the same everything input.txt in the right hand side
output.txt in the right down side
And these two lines.
So before moving ahead, I would like to.
Okay.
So in the next video, we will see how to set up snippets in Sublime, So guys there's one important point
that you need to notice is that whenever you submit your codes on different websites,like code forces,
code chef or ad coder, wherever, right then that compiler will also search for input.txt file
because you have submitted the whole code there to the judge, that is behind those.
Websites will also search for input.txt and will search for output.txt
For bypass that judge we use if and def, right?
So I think I'll be continuing to that in the next part in the next video and this so this is how you
can set up sublime in next part we will just see how to.
Makes snippets in sublime that will really help us.
And how to.
Let's say define some terms
And we'll also see if and def another things.
Right.
So see you in the next part
Guys, thank you.